Let me show you four next,
cuz four is one of my my favorite.
And yeah, what are we doing here?
Yes, we have a list of
data that it signals.
Apparently these are CATS.
And we want to actually
iterate over them and
show this list of CATS and
a link to them in the UI.
So essentially,
four is the way we do this.
The syntax for four is here,
let's do this.
Okay, and then for
each CATS and
then CAT and I.
And there's a reason I'm
showing this cuz there
is something special about the way
that we handle indexes, okay?
Let's get this specific data.
First of all,
CAT is going to just be the item directly.
So in this case,
it is not a signal being passed in.
So we need to change this up a bit so
garfield is gonna be just our
CAT who has a name, right?
But interestingly, Our index I,
is a function, is a signal, and
you might be wondering why is that?
Well, it's because if you think about it,
the list is keyed.
So the item itself can never change for
those DOM nodes.
But it can change position in the list.
So the index can change.
And this kind of helps you
understand a bit how solid renders
because it means that as
we add items to the list,
we never rerun that function for
the items that already exist, right?
We might update the index and
cause this specific text node update, but
we're never gonna rerun the items
that we've already created.
So for this reason the index is
the only thing that can change,
so it's a signal where
the other one is not.
And as you may have guessed for
the index component,
it's actually the opposite,
which is why there's two components and
why we didn't just roll
these into the same
thing cuz index each CATS and I'm gonna.
All right, When we do it this time,
get little, We pass in our CAT and I.
While it's very similar,
the difference this time
is now CAT is a function with a name,
it's a signal,
because the item can change but
the index never changes.
And in this case,
this is simply just i plus one.
So Little subtle difference here,
but if you think about it from
an optimization standpoint,
it actually makes a lot of sense.
I admit 90% of the time you're just gonna
use for you're not gonna use index.
It's very special cases where
you're gonna use index.
Your keyed is good, there's a reason why
frameworks complain at you when you don't
put your keys on there.
Every framework needs to be keyed,
there's no exception.
If a framework doesn't have keyed and
they're not complaining at you they're
just not warning you about something
that's actually a real concern.
But this is control flow
essentially in solid.
One other one that I did not show off yet,
because it's kinda specific.
Let's see, what did I show here?
Yeah, I mentioned suspense already,
which we'll cover later.
But we also have portals.
Portals are.
>> Is there any way you
can bump the problem.
>> One more, yes.
Portals are a way of basically moving
elements out of the main flow.
This is helpful for things like modals
where you wanna be able to Insert stuff
like hire out of the Zed index order and
just like not have to worry
about in the normal flow.
And for that reason,
we chose an interesting API.
We chose to go with components cuz
everything is all its components.
So essentially, in this example, we have
some text and we have this kind of pop up,
but it's like all part of
this kind of same thing.
And what we're gonna do is
we're gonna say actually,
we want this pop up to be in a portal.
So we're literally going to
move it here and do this here.
And the example a little bit small here,
you can't see it.
But yeah, essentially we've
pulled it out of the flow.
It's easier to see this when you actually
look at the the DOM here, but you know it.
I think you guys will trust me when I say
that this is now inserting the portal.
Well, you know what?
Never mind.
Let's see if we can actually do this.
Dom, did you do live up?
Up continue.
You can see that it's now been
pulled out from the rest of the app.
Essentially, we have just
some text inside a div and
then the portal is over here, right?
Sorry, I know this one small
after bumping up the text size.
I didn't actually help with this but
essentially it's been
pulled out of the flow.
So useful for modals.
You can also do stuff like set
what the mount element is.
You can insert basically anywhere you
can even insert in the head with it.
So it's a very powerful mechanism
that's very web centric.
The other control flows that I covered
work on any of our platforms they work
on native or they work in WebGL or
whatever whereas portal is very specific
to the platform that you're on.